{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Gustav Grusell\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 Highly experienced developer with a keen interest in video encoding and streaming technologies.\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Experience\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2015 -\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 {\b Developer and scrum master, Team Videocore, Sveriges Television AB}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Team videocore at SVT is responsible for the transcoding and publishing of all Video On Demand (VOD) content for SVT\u8217's online platforms. As a developer, I take part in development and maintenance of a system of microservices that handles transcoding, packaging and publishing of VOD content.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Starting in 2019, I also have the role of scrum master in team videocore. As a scrum master, I am responsible for helping the team maintain and improve the agile process, and for ensuring the team can perform at its highest level.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 During my time at SVT I have acquired both solid knowledge about, as well as a keen interest in, video encoding and streaming technologies. I have worked a lot with java, kotlin and spring boot, and also with js and react. My role as scrum master has given me good understanding of agile processes and team dynamics.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Some of the highlights from my time at SVT:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Building {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/svt/encore"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Encore
}}}
, our own open source transcoding solution based on FFmpeg, and migrating to encore from our previous proprietary solution.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Migrating the video workflow from a proprietary service for dash/hls-packaging to handling packaging ourselves with shaka packager.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Implementing hevc-transcoding to increase visual quality and decrease bandwidth\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Development of a machine-learning based tool for end credits detection.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2014 - 2015\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 {\b Senior Lead Developer, Bisnode Sverige AB}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Development of a system for distribution of business data. I have taken big responsibility in development of new subsystems. Development was done using Java, Groovy and Spring. I worked as part of a small agile team.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2010 - 2014\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 {\b Java developer, Smartstream Technologies GmbH, Austria}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Development of account reconciliations systems for customers in finance. System was first deployed on Gigaspaces but was then migrated to JBoss Fuse. I lead the work in optimizing the software for resource utilization and throughput, and the migration from Gigaspaces XAP to Fuse Fabric. Development was done with Java and Spring.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2006 - 2008\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 {\b Software Consultant, Gnistra AB}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Worked with Java development with JSF, hibernate, as well as development of industrial ultrasonic measuring systems with LabView. Independent work in smaller projects in close collaboration with customers.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2004 - 2006\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 {\b Research scientist, environmental modeling, ESS GmbH, Austria}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 ESS is a software company specialized in systems for environmental data and environmental modeling. The work was mainly development of software processing for simulating environmental processed, and development of web-based user interface for the simulations. The work included numerical modeling in c++, user interface development in PHP and JAVA, and database management with MySQL.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Education\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2013 - 2014\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 {\b Master\u8217's program in Social-Ecological Resilience for Sustainable Development, Stockholm Resilience Center}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2009\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 {\b German language, Vienna university}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1996 - 2003\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 {\b Master\u8217's Program in Environmental and Water Engineering, Uppsala University}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Technical Experience\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Programming Languages}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 Java, Kotlin, JavaScript, c++, Groovy, python, Labview/G, bash, emacs-lisp, clojure, R\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Frameworks}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 Spring-boot, React\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Technologies}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 Docker, Kubernetes, FFmpeg, Apache Kafka, MySql/MariaDB, Redis, Elastic Search, Cassandra, Oracle, MSSQL, Apache cassandra\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Open Source Projects\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Encore}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 A scalable video transcoding tool, built around FFmpeg. Built by the videocore team at SVT. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/svt/encore"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
https://github.com/svt/encore
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Vivict}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 An easy to use in-browser tool for subjective comparison of the visual quality of different encodings of the same video source. Built with react and js. I created this because I saw a need for simple free tool for comparing video quality. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/svt/vivict"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
https://github.com/svt/vivict
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Vivict++}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 An easy to use desktop tool for subjective comparison of the visual quality of different encodings of the same video source. Based on ffmpeg/libav, it supports a much wider range of codecs and formats than vivict. Built in c++. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/svt/vivictpp"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
https://github.com/svt/vivictpp
}}}
\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Human Languages\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Swedish - native speaker\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab English - fluent\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab German - fluent\sa180\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:gustav.grusell@gmail.com"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
gustav.grusell@gmail.com
}}}
 \u8226? +46 736401141 www.linkedin.com/in/gustavgrusell \u8226? https://github.com/grusell/\par}
}
